MIDTERM EXAM
(Covers roughly first half of course content: Branches of Philosophy, Allegory of the Cave, Truth/Lie/Bullshit, Skepticism, Gettier Cases, Mind/Body Dualism)

Multiple Choice (2 pts each)

Which branch of philosophy studies the nature of knowledge?
A) Metaphysics
B) Epistemology
C) Ethics
D) Logic

In Plato’s Allegory of the Cave, what do the shadows on the wall represent?
A) The Forms
B) Illusions or appearances
C) The truth of reality
D) Scientific knowledge

According to Frankfurt, a liar:
A) Says something false without caring if it’s true or false
B) Says something they believe is false, intending others to believe it true
C) Always tells the truth but withholds information
D) Speaks without any communicative purpose

Which of the following is an example of “bullshit” in Frankfurt’s terms?
A) Saying “It’s raining” when you know it’s sunny
B) Saying “It’s raining” to distract someone so you can steal their umbrella
C) Saying “It’s raining” because you misread a weather app
D) Saying “It’s raining” when you’re unsure but want to fill silence

In radical skepticism, which of the following is doubted?
A) Sensory reliability
B) Existence of other minds
C) Basic logical truths
D) All of the above

Short Answer (5 pts each)

Name two key differences between epistemology and metaphysics as described in the course text.

In the Allegory of the Cave, why does the freed prisoner have difficulty convincing others of the outside world?

Explain the key difference between lying and bullshit according to Frankfurt.

Describe one practical consequence of living as a radical skeptic.

In a Gettier case, why is justified true belief insufficient for knowledge?

Essay (10 pts each)

Summarize Plato’s Allegory of the Cave and explain its philosophical significance regarding the nature of reality and knowledge.

Construct an original Gettier case, explain how it meets each JTB condition, and why it still fails to constitute knowledge.

Using an example from the text, explain Descartes’ Mind/Body Dualism and the interaction problem.

Describe Frankfurt’s definitions of truth-telling, lying, and bullshit. Provide one original example for each and explain how it fits the definition.

Present one argument against radical skepticism (as in Moore’s proof of the external world) and explain why it is effective.